- [Instructor] We learn about the basic building blocks
of Kubernetes resources for pods.
Let's look at some other Kubernetes resources next.
Our deployment object provides declarative updates for pods.
You describe a desired state and a deployment object
and Kubernetes cluster changes the actual state
to the desired state at a controlled rate.
Multiple replicas of a pod can be created
by specifying the number of replicas.
A new version of the pod can be rolled out to all replicas
or it can roll back to a previously deployed version.
That is how a sample Kubernetes deployment manifest
might look like.
Let's walk through this.
You can see the apiVersion is different here.
The Kubernetes object to be created here is a deployment.
Usual metadata section.
In spec, replicas is a new entry
and defines a number of desired pods.
Selector defines a label selector for pods.
MatchLabel in that defines the exact set
of labels that are matched.
Any pods matching these labels
will be included in the deployment.
In our case, it's looking for app column greeting labels.
Template describes the pods that'll be created.
Most of the other entries are similar
to pod specification.
Ports is a new informational entry here
that provides a list of ports to expose from the container.
Kubernetes pods are ephemeral
and so an IP address assigned to them
cannot be relied upon for the applications to communicate.
Kubernetes service provides a logical collection of pods
and provides a well-defined API
that allows different applications to communicate.
It also provides a simple L4 DNS-based load balancing
for the pods belonging to the service.
The pods are loosely coupled using labels.
A service defines a label that must exist on a pod
in order to be included as part of the service.
On the other hand, deployment will create pods
using those labels.
The pods belonging to a service
can be dynamically scaled up and down,
but the service name continues to provide
a stable endpoint for other services to refer.
A Kubernetes service can be exposed outside the cluster.
This can be done using a Cloud provider
specific load balancer or a specific IP address.
That is how a sample Kubernetes service manifest
might look like.
Let's walk through this.
Usual apiVersion.
Kind indicates this is a service object.
Selector defines the labels that must match on the pods
to be included in the service.
Any traffic to the service
is then routed to the included pods.
The exact set of labels are specified as key value.
Ports provide port information for the service.
Port is the port that will be exposed by the service
and targetPort is a number or a name of the port
to access on the pods targeted by the service.
A number is mentioned in this case.
Let's look at some other useful Kubernetes resources.
A DaemonSet ensures that all or some nodes
in the cluster run a copy of a pod.
As nodes are added to the cluster,
pods are added to them.
As nodes are removed from the cluster,
those pods are garbage collected.
Deleting a DaemonSet will clean up the pods it created.
A job creates one or more pods
and ensures that a specified number
of them successfully terminate.
As pods successfully complete,
the job tracks the successful completions.
When a specified number of successful completions
is reached, the job itself is complete.
Deleting a job will clean up the pods it created.
A CronJob creates jobs on a time-based schedule.
One CronJob object is like one line of a crontab file.
It runs a job periodically on a given schedule,
written in Cron format.
StatefulSets is a workloads API object used
to manage stateful applications.
It provides guarantees about the ordering
and uniqueness of those pods.
For example, this is useful
for running database workloads in containers.
There are many other resources in Kubernetes
that can be seen on Kubernetes.io.